PAYARA-4236 Update MC docs after UX improvements (#653)
payara/Payara-Server-Documentation: documentation/user-guides/monitoring/monitoring-console.adoc

[[monitoring-console-page-switch]]
==== Switching Pages
To switch page use the drop-down menu at the top center of the page.

image::/images/monitoring-console/mc_page_menu.png[Page Navigation]

[[monitoring-console-page-layout]]
==== Changing Page Layout
Each page uses a column layout of 1-4 columns. The number of columns for a page can be changed using top right _Layout_ menu.

Changing the column layout of a page does not change the preferred position of the widgets. If a widget is set to column 3 but a 2-column layout is used all widgets of the 3rd or 4th column get pushed to the 2nd column instead. This allows switching layouts without redoing the configuration entirely.

[[monitoring-console-page-interval]]
==== Changing Page Update Interval
By default the graphs on a page update every 2 seconds. To control the interval use top right _Data Refresh_ menu or open the _Settings_ and change the interval in the _Global_ settings.

image::/images/monitoring-console/mc_settings_global.png[Global Settings]

> The interval can paused and continued without changing the interval duration by using the _paused_ checkbox next to the interval setting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The interval can be paused and continued without changing the interval duration by using the _paused_ checkbox next to the interval setting.
```

[[monitoring-console-page-delete]]
==== Deleting a Page
To delete a page open top right _Page_ menu, select _Delete_. and confirm the browser confirmation dialogue. 

NOTE: Pages that are based on a preset cannot be deleted. They can only be reset to default preset configuration.

[[monitoring-console-page-reset]]
==== Reset a Page
When the configuration of a preconfigured page or any of the widgets on it was changed by the user the page can be reset by selecting _Reset_ from the top right _Page_ menu.

WARNING: The reset will affect all widgets and the general page settings of the currently shown page. All changes made by the user will be overridden.

To reset all pages and remove all user created pages clear the browser's local storage for the monitoring console page.

[[monitoring-console-widgets]]
=== Widgets
Widgets are the components that can be placed on a page to show a particular metric.
While there are different types of widgets usually a widget shows a line graph of one or more metrics for the entire cluster.

[[monitoring-console-widget-add]]
==== Adding a Widget
Widgets can be added to any page. Open the side panel by clicking on _Settings_ top right menu.

> Use the dropdown in the _Add Widgets_ property of the _Page_ settings to select the category of the metric to add. This populates the second dropdown with all metrics for that category. Selecting a metric from the second dropdown to prefill the widget series name field below and press the _Add_ button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the dropdown in the _Add Widgets_ property of the _Page_ settings to select the category of the metric to add. This populates the second dropdown with all metrics for that category. Select a metric from the second dropdown to prefill the widget series name field below and press the _Add_ button.
```

image::/images/monitoring-console/mc_settings_page.png[Page Settings]

> When added widget are automatically placed in a column so that they are evenly distributed on the page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When added, widgets are automatically placed in a column so that they are evenly distributed on the page.
```

Use the link:#monitoring-console-widget-config[side panel widget settings] to change column, span or item position of the widget or use the quick menu for the widget by clicking the cog symbol in the top right corner of the widget and select the action you want to apply to the widget.

> NOTE: The widget series name field allows to enter the name manually for advanced use cases or in case a metric is not available now but known to become available at some point. See link:#monitoring-console-widget-advanced[Series with Wildcards] for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: The widget series name field allows you to enter the name manually for advanced use cases or in case a metric is not available now but known to become available at some point. See link:#monitoring-console-widget-advanced[Series with Wildcards] for more details.
```

[[monitoring-console-widget-config]]
==== Configuring a Widget
To configure a widget select it by clicking on its title (light blue background in image below).

image::/images/monitoring-console/mc_widget_settings.png[Open Widget Settings]

This opens the side panel and shows the detail configuration of the widget.

> The side panel can be closed by either deselcting the widget by clicking on its title again or by clicking the _Settings_ menu or its _Hide_ item.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The side panel can be closed by either deselecting the widget, by clicking on its title again, or by clicking the _Settings_ menu or its _Hide_ item.
```

[[monitoring-console-widget-decorations]]
==== Configuring Widget Decorations

> Decorations are visual helper that can be added to a graph of a widget in order to make it easier to for the user to quickly grasp the data displayed. In particular these are reference lines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Decorations are visual helpers that can be added to a graph of a widget in order to make it easier to for the user to quickly understand the data displayed. In particular these are reference lines.
```

> | Critical Threshold | (undefined) | The limit of the _"Critical"_ state. When no _Alarmin Threshold_ is defined or if it is smaller than this value the threshold is exceeded if the reference value is larger then the threshold. Otherwise if it is lower. When exceeded the status becomes _"Critical"_, overrides staus _"Alarming"_. Enter in unit of y-axis, e.g. 20ms, 5s, 2GB, 4%, 123

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Critical Threshold | (undefined) | The limit of the _"Critical"_ state. When no _Alarming Threshold_ is defined, or when the threshold is smaller than the reference value, the threshold is exceeded when the reference value is larger than the threshold set. When exceeded the status becomes _"Critical"_, overrides staus _"Alarming"_. Enter in unit of y-axis, e.g. 20ms, 5s, 2GB, 4%, 123
```

> | Critical Threshold | (undefined) | The limit of the _"Critical"_ state. When no _Alarmin Threshold_ is defined or if it is smaller than this value the threshold is exceeded if the reference value is larger then the threshold. Otherwise if it is lower. When exceeded the status becomes _"Critical"_, overrides staus _"Alarming"_. Enter in unit of y-axis, e.g. 20ms, 5s, 2GB, 4%, 123

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Critical Threshold | (undefined) | The limit of the _"Critical"_ state. When no _Alarming Threshold_ is defined, the threshold can only be exceeded if the value is set to be greater than 0, otherwise the threshold is exceeded when the reference value is larger to the threshold value that is set. When exceeded the status becomes _"Critical"_, overrides staus _"Alarming"_. Enter in unit of y-axis, e.g. 20ms, 5s, 2GB, 4%, 123
```

Author: I got confused by your suggestion - not entirely sure it says what I wanted to say so I rephrased it differently. Please have a look @AlanRoth.

Reviewer 2: That was the gist that I got when I read that 😄 It seems like it could be confusing as there is not a lot of punctuation and "Otherwise if it is lower." seems to be starting a point but never gets to it, perhaps you meant "Otherwise if it is lower, then the threshold is exceeded"? and I think it might get confusing referring to the threshold being exceeded when the threshold is lower than the value, as you refer to the value being higher than the threshold previously, so its good to stay consistent throughout the sentence, if that makes sense? 😃

Author: What do you think about the change I made? What else would a threshold be other than _exceeded_?

Reviewer 2: I think I'm confused, what are you trying to say in that sentence?

Author: Thresholds can work in two directions. Usually one assumes a threshold to be exceeded when the compared value is higher. But if you set an alarming threshold higher than a critical this suggest that the value has an inverse proportion where lower values are "more" or "worse". Therefore if that is the case the threshold is _exceeded_ if the compared value is below.

Reviewer 2: Ah! Yes, I see. It makes much more sense now 😄 

I would still change "Otherwise if it is lower." to something like -> "Otherwise, if the critical threshold is lower than the alarming threshold, the threshold becomes inverse, and is exceeded when the reference value falls below the critical value" Feel free to change the wording, I feel like it could have been expanded a bit to make it clear to the reader of this feature

Author: I applied you suggestion.

[[monitoring-console-settings]]
=== Global Configurations
Currently the configuration that controls the monitoring console UI is only stored in the browser's local storage.
It can be exported and imported in the form of JSON files to share or distribute configurations.

[[monitoring-console-page-export]]
==== Export Configuration
A configuration contains all pages. All changes made to a page or widget setup are contained in this configuration. To download this configuraton as JSON file select _Export_ from the _Settings_ top right menu.

[[monitoring-console-page-import]]
==== Import Configuration
To import a previously exported JSON file select _Import_ in the top right _Settings_ menu and select the JSON file to import. This feature can be used to version and distribute configurations for similar installations.

WARNING: Importing files will override any changes made to pages existing in both the current configuration and the imported file. Importing pages will not remove pages that are not contained in the imported file.

[[monitoring-console-page-rotation]]
==== Page Rotation

> Monitoring console is build with the intention to be usable to display metrics on status monitors. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Monitoring console is built with the intention of being used to display metrics on status monitors. 
```

==== Request Tracing
The _Request Tracing_ page overview page shows traces that exceeded the set threshold.

> NOTE: If this page does not show any data, no request has yet exceeded the threshold or the request tracing has not been enabled. Check _Configuration_ => _Request Tracing_. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: If this page does not show any data, no request has exceeded the threshold or the request tracing has not been enabled. Check _Configuration_ => _Request Tracing_. 
```

All traces for the same method are shown as a single bar. The length and position of the bar gives the range of total trace duration for all the occurrences that exceeded the threshold. The bar starts at the minimum duration observed and ends at the maximum duration observed in the last minute.
The legend shows the average duration and the method traced (innermost trace span operation)

image::/images/monitoring-console/mc_rt_overview.png[Request Tracing Page]

When all time minimum and/or maximum are added in the _Widget_ _Data_ settings the bar starts and/or ends at these "all time" values instead of the minumum and/or maximum within the last minute.

> By clicking on one of the bars in the overview the details of all lept traces for this method can be viewed. This data corresponds to the traces stored in the trace-store.

Reviewer: Is "lept" the right word here?  I doesn't make much sense to me.

Author: It should have been "kept". Change is coming.

When the side panel is opened the details of each trace span can be viewed by clicking on the span bar.

> The legend again gives average durations for each of the spans occurring for the traced method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The legend gives average durations for each of the spans occurring for the traced method.
```

> NOTE: The detail view is not automatically refreshing. To refresh click the refresh icon next to the _Sorting_ menu in the top right of the widget.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: The detail view does not automatically refresh. To refresh click the refresh icon next to the _Sorting_ menu in the top right of the widget.
```

The spans can be sorted by wall time by selecting _Sort by Wall Time_ or by duration by selecting _Sort By Duration_ in the _Sorting_ menu in the top right of the widget.

> To get back to the overview close the details clicking the x-icon on the right side of the _Sorting_ menu.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get back to the overview close the details by clicking the x-icon on the right side of the _Sorting_ menu.
```

> WARNING: Be aware that the graphs shown in the example images above show unrealistically low numbers because the request tracing had been configured to such low thresholds to force traces as requests exceed the set thresholds. In a more realistic configurations the durations are more likely to be in range of few hundred milliseconds to some seconds.

Reviewer: I understand what you are getting at but this sentence is a bit convoluted.  I would have simplified with something like...

> Be aware that the graphs in the example images above show unrealistically low numbers due to the way that request tracing was configured. In a more realistic configurations the durations are more likely to be in range of few hundred milliseconds to some seconds.
